Update VSCode page (#315)
pester/docs: docs/usage/vscode.mdx

---
title: Visual Studio Code
description: See how Visual Studio Code and its extensions helps you run and debug your Pester tests directly inside the editor
---

> Using Visual Studio Code with the latest [PowerShell extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.PowerShell) provides a great experience for writing PowerShell code. The extension includes Pester-specific features to improve the way you write, run and debug Pester tests.

Author: ```suggestion
Using Visual Studio Code with the latest [PowerShell extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.PowerShell) provides a great experience for writing PowerShell code. The extension even includes Pester-specific features to improve the way you write, run and debug tests.
```

### Code lens

> With the `Pester: Code Lens` setting enabled, VSCode will show `Run tests` or `Debug tests` links above your Pester blocks for quick execution. Starting with Pester 5 this also works on individual tests. You can even run tests that are marked as skipped by running them individually.

Author: ```suggestion
The editor shows `Run tests` or `Debug tests` links above your Pester blocks for quick execution of `Describe` and `Context` blocks. Starting with Pester 5 this also works on individual tests. You can even run tests that are marked as skipped by running them individually.
```

![Shows a single test being run using the new Code Lens](images/single-test.gif)

To enable the improved code lens for Pester 5 you need to disable the "Use Legacy Code Lens" setting which is enabled by default.

1. In Visual Studio Code, open **File | Preferences | Settings** (<kbd>⌘/Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>,</kbd>)
2. In the **Settings** window, navigate to the **Extensions | PowerShell** section.
3. Uncheck the **Pester: Use Legacy Code Lens** checkbox.

> 4. Close the **Settings** window.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Make sure **Pester: Code Lens** is checked (default).
5. Close the **Settings** window.
```

### Output verbosity

You can control the output verbosity level in VSCode output, or let it inherit from PesterPreference.

![Shows a run with normal preference that shows only errors](images/minimal-output.gif)

### Navigation

> Pester-blocks are recognized by the PowerShell-extension to simplify navigation in your test files.

Author: ```suggestion
Pester-blocks are recognized as symbols to simplify navigation in multiple ways:
```

> - The Outline panle shows an overview of your Pester-blocks.<br/>

Author: ```suggestion
- The Outline panel shows an overview of your Pester-blocks.<br/>
```

  ![Shows a outline of Pester block structure in the sidepanel](images/vscode-outline.png)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - Your current location in easily identified using breadcrumbs or the sticky scroll features.<br/>

Author: ```suggestion
- The current location in nested blocks are shown in breadcrumbs and sticky scroll.<br/>
```

  ![Shows nested blocks as sticky lines above the current line in the editor](images/vscode-breadcrumbs.png)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - `Context`, `Describe` and `It` blocks are all searchable using Go to symbol commands.<br/>

Author: ```suggestion
- `Context`, `Describe` and `It` blocks are all searchable using "Go to symbol" commands.<br/>
```
